Is there that similar spree at West Point? Sure.
Would you compare them? Are there any
differences? As far as spirit? No. The spirit is
the same. They both have come
in the same. Well, they have a 1,200-meter team up
there. It's not just 11 on the field. It's 1,200 of
them. It used to be 1,200. There's a lot more than
that now.
We have pep rallies the same way. Everybody's
motivated. And it catches the same spirit, school
spirit. It's strong. We had the same at Tarleton,
Florida. We had the same school spirit there too.
Yeah, the same as strong at Tarleton as you did at
A&M. Yeah, only we had girls.
Yeah, there's a difference there. And they've got
girls at A&M now too. Sure do. And they've got girls
at West Point now too. What's your opinion of that?
Well, I was skeptical at first, but I think I'm a
supporter.
At West Point and A&M?
Yes. Were you a leader in the Corps of Cadets? You
certainly weren't in the Corps of Cadets, but were
you a leader later at West Point? Yes. Well,
were you telling
anyone?
Well, I was the selected as the highest ranking.
Cleave in my company.
And I was the senior. Is that it? My
junior year,
I was number one in my class in the military. I guess
I was in line to be the first captain. So you always
had those positions of leadership. Now, what do
the cadets at West Point think of A&M?
Well, most of them don't know a great deal about it,
except they know of it. It's been advertised a lot
by those of us that attended. Did they ask you a lot
of questions? Were they at all interested?
Well, it seemed like they were more interested
after they got to know something. And they knew.
They've known a lot of them, and they think a lot of
them. Congratulations. Of course, you probably
sat on promotion boards throughout your career.
Was there any favoritism one way or the other? No.
Where a man went to school, very little. They had
nothing. I'd say almost nothing.
What
they've accomplished, how they've performed. I
could see no changes based on that. No training or
anything else. No, I've heard from some people
that there's this West Point Protective
Association, like a pile of crap. Okay, well, why?
Tell me. Well, I've seen it operate. I've seen
promotion boards. It
goes beyond even that. Even close friends. It
would not influence
the decision. You pick the guy that you think can do
the job, or you
promote the guy that you think is the best man. I
don't know. I just don't buy it. It's been a sort of
protective association, a ring knocker,
whatever you want to call it. Is there tension,
though, between West Point officers and ROTC
officers in the military? I didn't
see military. I didn't sense
that. Okay. Would you compare the quality of
students at Tarleton and Anaheim, the ROTC
schools, the quality of student attendance at
West Point?
Well, I would say that the new entrance exams that
all of them are using, they're going to be awful
complicated. Were they comparable? No. There was
no such thing. Anybody could go to A&M or Tarleton.
They had to pass an entrance
exam. It was quite hard to show a certain level in
college that they had accomplished to get exempt
from taking an entrance exam. So which place do you
think were superior students? That doesn't make
them superior students. They're more selective
in who can get in. They were selective. But in order
to get into Carleton or A&M, all you had to do was be a
high school graduate. I think it's changed now.
But did you have an opinion about your colleagues?
Which ones? Worked harder, got better grades.
Well, after a guy gets through the first year
at the military, he gets through. He's got another
thing.
He's proved he's
got enough intelligence to pass the rest of them,
in my opinion, because he's done it under
pressure. And there are probably fewer of them to
flunk out at West Point after the first year than on
the other side.
I'm only surmising this because I'm not familiar
with what goes on in Tarleton or in, well, I am a
little bit from Tarleton, but not in A&M. I'm not
familiar with the figures or
the problems that they're having. I'm just not
familiar
with it now. What did you decide to... You said that
you received the appointment at West Point. At
this time you were about a junior standing. Why did
you decide to leave A&M with only about one year
left of school and go to four more at West Point? I
decided I wanted to make the Army my group. Oh, you
did? If I was going to do that, I wanted to be on the
grounds floor. I knew that if I didn't get in West
Point, I was going to try for a commission
in the Army Reserve. In other words, you switched
your your aims from being an engineer and going to
MIT to becoming a regular Army? Yeah, a regular
Army. Now, why did you switch your aims? Well, as I
told you, I
had an influence as a major vendor on Charlton
Thorold and the These
two
guys, my parents,
and another second lieutenant,
just got out. They impressed me very much. Very
impressed with them. They walked straight, stood
tall. Everybody looked up to them. So it was
basically because of a couple of people that
influenced you? Yeah. I made the decision. They
told me I had the point. That's when I made the
decision. What was your response when you found
that you had the appointment?
I was late. I thought at the time, I knew I didn't
want to be a farmer. I'd seen my grandfather. Sure.
Sit on the porch and cry. Cotton
was
washed away,
and
my dad was in the construction business. Totally
dependent on the weather. I thought I wanted to do
the same thing. A little less dependent on what
happened, nature-wise. So, in other words, you
wanted the security of a military crew? Well, not
only the security, but the excitement.
How did you know it was exciting? Well,
these lieutenants talked to me about it. So they
told you your experiences, and you identified
with those? Yeah.
Okay. Why did you decide to go from Army infantry,
which you previously had planned on, and then
change to flying in the Air Corps?
September 1941, and
they decided to
move our graduation date up six months. They also
decided to allow those who wanted to take Air Corps
training to take Air Corps training, and they sold
me on
it. Sold me on the opportunity. And I had my first
tactical officer at Major Harper. He retired as a
general. He was my tactical officer and he
encouraged me. And I did. But did you, did you, of
course we needed, not only did we need fliers, but
we needed infantry officers during the war.
Were you at all thrilled about the idea of being an
aviator? There was a lot of glamour in the late
1930s about aviation. Were you at all interested
now? Well, we got, we were indoctrinated on the Air
Force there, and we studied, and we were given
orientation, pride. I decided I'd like to be a
pilot. I knew we were going to war, and if I was going
to war, I'd just as soon ride and walk.
What kind of pilot did you want to be? Fighter
pilot.
And you had no problem with the physical?
No. Let's start then about your career. When did
you get your commission, second lieutenant? 19th
of January, 1943. I got my wings on December 10th,
42. So you had your wings before you had your own
class that wore their wings at West Point. No
kidding. The first class was shorter. The class
after us graduated and got their wings on the same
day they graduated.
And you went down, your first flight school,
flying school, was down And then June 42 to
December 42 at Hicks Field in Fort Worth, right?
Went to Hicks Field in June of 42. Mm-hmm. It just
lasted three months. Mm-hmm. So you had three
months of flight school. No, in primary, and then
we went to basic. I went to basic at West Point and
then went back to play football. Tell me about the
flight school during the war. Was it adequate? Did
it prepare you not to be a fighter pilot? I thought
it was very adequate. And we had haze in there, too.
Oh, kidding? Oh, yeah. You could never escape,
could you? You got it every place. All aviation
cadets got haze. It
wasn't near as bad as... There was plenty of them.
It was under control. Physical or mental? Both.
Who hazed you? You were only there for three
months? The upperclassmen. People that had been
there for two months? Well, we were 42K,
and the 42J was there, still there. They were the
upperclassmen. I don't think we were there for six
weeks. Six weeks, and then six weeks of basic. I
don't remember the number of weeks. Anyhow,
basic. We started in June. We had our wings in six
months. So it must have been about two months at
each place. Now tell me about black training.
What exactly was the training on? Well, you had
ground school, which covered theory and weather
and subjects like that. And then you started the
flight training, went along with it. You had
ground school and flight training. And you were
assigned to an instructor. And he took you up and
demonstrated things to you and had you do
them.
After you've been up so far, and they give you a
checkride, and you checked out all right, you'd
get out and let you solo. After how long could you
solo? Six or eight hours, somewhere. Six or eight
hours of instruction, and they already had you
soloing? Yeah. Did you feel that the flight school
was adequate, free or freer, when you were late?
Oh, yeah, I know it was tremendous. I really
did. I'll never forget the first day. mean not the
first day the first day we went out so i didn't see
this guy hicks feeling forward
man you're going out into the area today for the
first time don't let any clouds get between you and
hicks field if an airplane comes up to you and does a
series of dives and zoom return to hicks field and
land immediately
My good friends are there with me now, and I always
recite that to each other. We remember that so
vividly.
And I remember the first time my instructor did a
spin, I thought the airplane was going to come
apart. No kidding. You were scared. Well, it
scared me, yeah. But I didn't know what a spin was
until he did it. I knew what a spin was, but I'd never
experienced one. Were there many casualties
during the training period? I mean, did you lose
many of your cadets? Yes, quite a few washed out.
Not as many of the ones from West Point as the
regular aviation cadets, because most of them
then were nothing but high school graduates. And
they were much younger and inexperienced. Well,
we had some of our group washed out, too. They had no
ability to apply. What about deaths? Did you have
very many? No, not many. Just a couple? I don't
recall us having any in primary or basic.
One of my classmates was killed in advance.
We were one of the first experimental classes.
They let us fly our fighters 10 hours before we
graduated. We were flying
the B-39,
and one of my classmates spun in. I don't know what
happened. Then you went on in January 1943. We went
back to West Point on December 10th of January 1943
and we had our senior year. So you had your senior
year for six months? No, six weeks. Oh, for six
weeks you had your whole senior year?
Well, obviously the necessity of war.
What'd you think about having a nine or ten month
course in six weeks? How'd they ever do that? Well,
they just condensed the courses and gave you what
they could.
There's military history and law, military law.
Was there any grumbling from the students? No, we
were happy to leave. That's what I thought. Were
you eager to get to war? Yes. Is that the feeling at
West Point? Yes. I wanted to get in action.
Okay, so in April 1943, you didn't get in action.
You went to the 323rd Fighter Squadron. and then at
Langley also. Here you have, for the next year,
April 43 to 44, you were at four different bases.
Why is that? Why do you keep moving your own? Well,
that's part of the program. You move from place to
place, and you have a different mission in each
place and different training. We did strafing at
Langley at the Langley Range, and then we went up to
New Jersey. air-to-air gunnery out on the ocean.
And we were also, at all these places, we were
flying air defense. We were protecting capital.
And we were intercepting bogey under training
conditions. And we had people setting actual
alert
in Washington. Thank you for that. There never
was, I don't know. There was never an enemy
aircraft. That was never sighted, was there? No.
We did sight some submarines. Oh, really? Yeah. No
kidding. Did you ever fire on one? No. We weren't
allowed to. Why not? I don't know. They were, were
they enemy or were they, you could never identify
them? No, we just told them where we saw them and
they took it from there. Mm-hmm. So they might have
been American. They could
have been. When did you finally get overseas? We
got over in October 1943. Okay, October 1943. And
what division were you with? What was your job? I
was an
element leader in the flag.
What type of aircraft? P-47s. P-47s? And where did
they send you? They sent us to England. So this is in
preparation for Normandy. At that time it wasn't.
We were in the 8th Air Force, and we flew escort for
the bombers.
But then in,
I think it was February, They formed the 9th Air
Force. We were one of the original groups, and we
changed bases. We started preparation.
And we started dive bombing
on buzz bomb sites and rocket sites and airfields
and bridges and trains and whatever. Did you work
with any RIL?
Well, I suppose we did, but not our group. Side by
side? Not side by side, not our group. What did you
think of the British people? We liked them. We
thought they were very
difficult to work with if you had anything to deal
with. civilian hierarchy, the clerk of the works,
because they had so many rules and regulations
they had to follow.
Well and I impossible now. I wasn't in on that. All I
could hear was the guys talking about it. Sure.
They had to. We were doing nothing but fire. How
often did you fly on these attacks and on the bomber
missions? Well, I mean the group flew almost every
day.
And how many fighter planes were in the group?
Well, we flew 16 airplanes per squadron, so we had
48 aircraft in the group, but we had more than that,
aircraft and pilots assigned.
And so one squadron would fly every day, usually?
Well, all three squadrons, when we started, all
three squadrons would fly every day. A group would
fly. And then after we got in the 9th Air Force, we no
longer flew group missions. We flew squadron
missions. The strafing? Strafing, bomb, dive
bomb, strafing. They told us when we got over
there, when we were escorted, we shouldn't go over
20,000 feet. Yeah, we weren't supposed to go below
20,000 feet because the ME-109, the Focke-Wulf
190 would shoot us down. And I recall on the second
mission I went on, I was flying the element on the
wing commander.
We had some Focke-Wulf 190s come and go through the
formation, and I peeled off on the one that came
through us and followed him. And I went on down to
about 15,000 feet, and I fired. He was already away
from me. And I got my wingman and compressibility,
which was the problem. People would get too fast
and get controlled for the first time. And when I
came back and got back up in formation, got back out
on the ground, I was chewed out for going above
20,000 feet. And then about two or three months
later, when we went to the 9th Air Force, we never
got above 15,000 feet for the rest of
the war. When the bombers bombed, they bombed
about 20,000? No, they were above 20. There were
more up by 30. The
flak was pretty bad. Yeah. I remember my first
mission. We took off and we had to climb through
clouds. As soon as we got airborne, we were in the
clouds. We didn't break out of it until we were over
20,000 feet and we already crossed over the coast.
I looked back and I saw all this flak come up there,
and I said, man, this is war. Until then, I hadn't
seen any evidence of war, but I saw it then. What
were your feelings? Well, you get a feeling of fear
and respect right quick.
And then...
on some of the missions that we got to escort. We'd
read about them the next day and the stars would
strike. It made me feel sort of proud
to be a part of it. Now, were most of the bomber
missions directed toward Germany by that time?
Yes, most of them were in Germany, although some of
them were— Still in France? Some of them were in
France and in Northern Europe.
Most of them at that time. On your missions,
I didn't see it on here, how many kills did you have?
I didn't have any kills. Why not? I never got the
opportunity. OK. What did you think of? Did you
think that that was kind of strange? That you
didn't see them? No. Why? There were plenty of them
that lots of people didn't see. Well, you just had
to be at the right place at the right time, and it's
not
unusual. I only fired one, and that was on about my
third or fourth mission or something like that. I
never saw another one. In other words, by 1943—
Except on the ground. Yeah, by 1943 or 1944, the
number of German airplanes was reduced. Well, we
were transferred to the 9th Air Force, and the 8th
Air Force then got the P-51s, and they started
picking them up, really. And they are the ones
protecting the bombers, and they were coming
after the bombers, but they didn't send any
fighters
after us. Because we were low-level, low-level
dive bombers.
And not too far into France, even. So they didn't
have any airplanes that bothered us. When you got
there in 1943, what do you think was the opinion of
our American fighter planes versus the Germans?
Well, in altitude, we were better. And the low
altitude capability
of the P-47 We thought
that the ME-109 and the Focke-Wulf 109 could
out-turn us, but we could
outrun them. What about our armaments,
firepower? Well, we had eight machine guns, and
they didn't have that much armament. We had the
good armament. We thought we had a little better
armament anyway.
The
P-38,
I don't think that it survived.
They did use them on reconnaissance, but they
didn't survive. As a matter of fact, when we went
into France, we went to place near Nancy, and he
took over an old
German airfield, and in the walls of
their officer's club it showed pictures of
Focke-Wulf 190s shooting down P-38s. It's very
interesting. What was your general opinion of the
quality of the We
had real good
pilots.
But we were well trained. But we didn't think much
of the leadership down there. No. Because they
could have bombed on the right end of the
submission. Instead, they chose to bomb churches
and things like that. It used to make the British
mad. And they lost the
Battle of Britain. But you thought as far as the
pilots were concerned, they were as well trained,
better trained, compared with the Americans? No,
I don't think they were better trained than the
Americans. They probably weren't as well trained
as the Americans. Some of them were very
experienced, and they had some they were not.
I think overall our training was better. That is
initial training. And of course
the British were well trained too. They had lots of
experience. Did you go on any exercises with the
RAF? Did you ever work with the British pilots in
any of the striking missions? No? Always a general
opinion of the RAF pilots.
Well,
we thought they were good pilots. We didn't get to
associate with them. You know about the fourth,
right? The fourth. It was Americans who were with
the R.E.F. when they transferred to the U.S.A.
after we got over there. Were you happy to change
from bomber missions, where you were a fighter
protection for bombers, to strafing? No, we
wanted to shoot down some airplanes.
We were doing nothing but dive bombing and
strafing.
It was exciting. I can imagine. Plenty of flak. We
had plenty of losses, too. And this was the period
of, what was this? D.D. Yeah, it was the period
before D.D., yeah, before the Normandy invasion.
Were you then, you were bombing basically, or
strafing and bombing, dive bombing, basically
French
Anything that looked like supplies. Yeah, and we
grew up a lot of bridges. We tried, and what we did
was try to cut all the railroads and all the big
bridges all the way around Paris. Sure. Coming
towards Normandy. Mm-hmm. And, uh, in a media. In
marshland yards, we had lots of marshland yards.
And, uh, as I say, these, uh, places that were
launching missiles, B-1, B-2. Now how could you
identify those places? They, uh, intelligence,
and they took pictures, reconnaissance, took
pictures and bring you, bring you back a picture to
show you, to show you what to do. And give you the
coordinates? Oh yeah. And did you get any of those?
Oh yes, lots
of them. And did they, were they the type of, when
you exploded them, or when you hit them, did they
explode, or did they just? No, they didn't
explode. They just fell over? Well,
they blew up.
You had craters.
How
successful do you think you were in your task?
Well, we think we were highly successful.
I think that's what made the invasion go. At any
time did you work with Curtis LeMay? No. Did you
later work with him when he was in charge of Sion?
Because he was over in the European theater. Yes, I
knew who
he was. He was a big airport guy. After we left, it
was night there. Who was your commander? I don't
know, Whalen. Whalen? Yeah. How was he?
Tremendous.
Tremendous. Tremendous. In what way? Well,
he came by to see us and talk to us
and encouraged us, inspired us.
He'd come around, pin medals on people, things
like that, talk to you.
I saw that we got what we needed. Was there any
problem with shortages in supplies? No. How about
food? We didn't like the food in front of the
shortage. But you always had enough bombs, and you
always had enough ammunition, and the airplanes
were well-maintained. I mean, as well as they
could be under wartime conditions. Only one thing
that I remember, the first time one of the B-1s, we
were on the route right down through Maidstone,
which is down on the south of Southwest. We were
right on the route when the V-1s came over to go to
London. The first one that came over, the Coastal
Artillery, I mean, I guess it was whoever, the
Coastal Artillery, I guess, was the one that was
running the anti-aircraft around the base. They
shot up all their ammunition and all the reserves.
The first night one of them came over and they never
did hit one. So did you have to scramble? Did you
shoot those down? Yes, we shot a few of them down.
Did you ever get the opportunity to hit one? No.
Sometimes you were just lucky if you were coming
back from a mission, one would be coming over so
that you could chase it. And you'd see it. And you'd
see it. Or you'd already be on the ground and want to
go around and say, oh, well, you missed that one.
But a couple of guys shot a few of them, shot one
down. You picked them up on radar? We didn't have
any right now. But I mean the British could pick
them up. No, they were low level. They couldn't
pick them up that low. They came in right over. They
were right on the deck. About 50 feet or so. Maybe
100.
They were really exciting.
I was wondering if you ever got shot down. Yes, I got
shot down once. Can you tell me about that? Yes, we
went in and We went
in to dive on.
We went in to
dive on. And one place on the coast across from
Dover there called Gray Graveling,
G-R-A-V-E-L-I-N-E-S. And they always sent up
about a burst of flak, about four or five bursts,
every time you went near them. And we always asked
when we got towards this particular day, we were at
12,000 feet, coming out after having dive-bombed
an airfield or a launching site. And good. I think
this one was in Airfield. In northern France.
Yeah. And we came back over and the flight leader,
instead of passing when we got near this place,
went straight over and a burst of flak came up in the
hip. One burst hit the knee right in the engine. Was
it below you when that exploded?
And the big fan quit turning. And it got awfully
quiet. And that's the thing that impressed me. It
was so quiet. So I started gliding. And
I got down to about 2,000 feet. And I decided I'd
better jump out. I remember it was so big. Always
when I got out there. Were you still over land? I was
over the North Sea, over water. So you were over in
the English Channel Zone? Yeah, all the time,
because that's the gravelings right on that host.
Anyhow, I unbuckled my parachute strap like I
always did and started to get out. And I said, well,
that's silly. You're supposed to try to sit back
down and buckle my parachute. And about that time,
I was getting pretty low, and so I just stood up on it
and jumped out. So you opened up the canopy and
jumped out. Mm-hmm. We'd been told the problem was
hitting the tail, so what I did was step up on the
side and jump as high as I could. And then I made it.
Pulled my parachute, and this strap that comes
across here came up and hit me in the nose and
bludged my nose. I tried to guide myself, and I made
the dry land about 50 yards. And it's minefields
all around there, so of course what you do is you
wait for the British to come get you. So I waited for
the British and pretty soon they came out in a jeep
and picked me up. And I got blood on that parachute,
so that was ruined, so they gave me the parachute.
And my wife's wedding dress was made out of that
parachute. You were lucky to float over to
England, weren't you? Or did you try to keep
gliding until you could see the land? Well, I could
see the land. I could see the land. It's not very far
across there anyway. I was very lucky to be able to
make it that far. You were lucky the wind wasn't
blowing the other way, too. It made me mad. That was
the next mission that day. I was supposed to be the
first one that I had led, the whole group. The whole
group on the mission. And now you didn't have a
plane. I didn't have a plane. I wasn't even there. I
got back over there and the group commander, I got
back in time to go, but the group commander said no.
Said she'd go and leave and go to London. So I did.
That's pretty exciting. I bet you it was exciting.
I bet you it was really exciting. How often did you
get leads into London? Oh, they called it R&R.
Yeah. Maybe every couple of months or something.
Three days passed. R&R. How did the people in
London treat the Americans? They treated us very
nice, I thought.
I remember one night, they had a blackout, of
course.
A taxi cab came along and stopped and asked me for
directions. Sorry, I'm a stranger here.
But when
you were June 6, 1944, were you directly involved
with D-Day on the initial invasion? I was directly
involved because I was one of the ones that had to, I
was then a system group operations officer, and I
was in on the classified plans, and so I could not
fly that day. But I did draw a commission. I drew a
commission.